
1) Customer Obsession: (In my opinion customer obsession means earning customer trust is achieved by understanding customer needs present and future and providing A+ service.)
	a) Who was your most difficult customer?
		S: I was assigned a ticket by another team member that had not been worked on, I reached out to the customer who was totally upset and livid that no one had touch the ticket in a week and it was impacting his time lines and he was not vary friendly to me.
		T: I empathized with his situation and I realized it will not be easy to fix it and I ensured the customer that I would be the engineer that would work with him to resolution and "no bouncing around".
		A: Based on the information he gave me I gathered pertinent logs, set a time line to meet with him next day to discuss my findings and I reviewed the logs and discovered the problem was something that had to be fixed outside of my team. I took it on myself to contact the engineering team and explained the issue of the customer, provided the logs and worked with the team to get a solution to the customer which was going to take couple of days.
		R: I kept customer updated daily until the fix was in and verified. The customer was still wasn't happy with the delay but he was satisfied that I managed his ticket. What I learned was I can keep the customer happy by providing high level of communications and updates on the their tickets daily.
	b) Give me an example of a time when you did not meet a client’s expectation. What happened, and how did you attempt to rectify the situation?
	c) When you’re working with a large number of customers, it’s tricky to deliver excellent service to them all. How do you go about prioritizing your customer's needs?
		This question can have similar answer like in 10.a.
	d) Tell the story of the last time you had to apologize to someone.
		S: Citi have a historical Cron jobs that run nightly, I had some of the vendor partners contact me saying he is missing some of the logs. It just so happened we experienced massive DDoS where several servers were hung and one was unrecoverable causing data loss.
		T: Backup team was engaged to restore the bad server from last snapshot, the logs which customer already possessed.
		A: Realizing this was a legacy practice and single point of failure for logging, Splunk was introduced for logging and for storing the logs.
		R: The customer was notified of the new new process and provided the updated documentation.

2) Ownership:
	a) Tell me about a time when you had to leave a task unfinished:
		S: Citibank does business in 160 countries with 200 million customers, I am part of the team which support NAM and LATAM customers. I was new to the job at that time and I was asked to take a global initiative effort.
		T: Identify and consolidate the various internal deployment tools that were being used, this was to reduce the licensing footprint and create a global catalog of softwares.
		A: I got the copy of internal Org chart and based on that I scheduled meetings with teams across the time zones but the participation was low. Reached out to my manager for advice he said to try harder and escalate to respective team managers. I asked my senior colleagues was advice and that when I found out that this was a long standing project initiative with little traction prior to my arrivals due to major re-org that Citi has just undergone.
		R: Despite my best efforts I was not able to gather the comprehensive list. The project was deprecated as it was replaced by automation initiative which provided the answers to vendor consolidation and version control across the LOBs (Line of Business). This taught me a lesson about don't assume about the facts and look more for data.
	b) Tell me about a time when you had to work on a project with unclear responsibilities:
		This question can have similar answer like in 2.a, You can add in the Situation section to say that there was no clear objectives and targets defined.

3) Invent & Simplify:
	a) Tell me about a time when you gave a simple solution to a complex problem:
		The LATAM web sites migration, where they have around 400 redirects that needs to be tested before we put in to the Production, I suggested to update the /etc/hosts file under system32 folder in Windows to point to the new servers.
	b) Tell me about a time when you invented something:
		I have invented cktool, which is short for custom keytool where I have taken the libraries of Java keytool and written my own version, the features I have added to the tool are Pretty Print, Deleting all expired certificates with one command, adding the certificate signers of a particular public key and many more.

4) Are Right, A lot:
	a) Tell me about a time when you were wrong:
		This question can have similar answer like in 1.d.
	b) Tell me about a time when you had to work with incomplete data or information:
		This question can have similar answer like in 2.a.

5) Learn & Be Curious:
	a) Tell me about a time when you influenced a change by only asking questions.
		S & T: As a member of an POC project where I are asked to build regular websites using Nginx on RHEL servers and provide technical expertise. The website will host marketing pages with lot of images and content, the website should be easily scalable and must have monitoring solution.
		A:
		R:
	b) Tell me about a time when you solved a problem through just superior knowledge or observation:
		Observed high CPU utilization on web servers - which was initially suspicion was DDos and later engaging the SOC/Network teams which was determined that was not the case. While analyzing the logs with mpmstats module enabled - I observed that more threads were being consumed by mod_log module that correlated with the recent change we made for external syslog (Splunk) which we were forwarding the logs to. After disabling the syslog the CPU utilization came down to normal operational levels.

6) Hire & Develop The Best:
	a) Tell me about a time when you mentored someone:
		Citibank has a great internship program where Computer Science Graduates are given opportunity to work in Information Technology space with current technologies, I was assigned two such interns with whom I worked closely on a Proof of Concept project to replace Apache web servers with Nginx as part of Cloud On-boarding and Adaptation. In the first few days I was able to gauge their understanding of e-commerce/ web applications inner workings and identified the areas of improvement and suggested them to utilize online training courses offered at Citi. We had daily 15 minutes stand-up meetings to go over the todays tasks and peer grooming sessions which helped them and also me as I was learning about Nginx in detail. We were able to build/configure and run the Nginx servers and completed the project with documentation detailing operational support, run book and monitoring. I really enjoyed working with the interns and had a sense of great pleasure and in the process made good friends.
	b) Tell me about a time when you made a wrong hire. When did you figure it out and what did you do?
		A: I was never in a situation where I made the decisions to hire people. I was part of the hiring process where I provided technical interview feedback.

7) Invest on the Highest Standards:
	a) Tell me about a time when you couldn’t meet your own expectations on a project:
		This question can have similar answer like in 1.b.
	b) Tell me about a time when a team member didn’t meet your expectations on a project:
		S & T: I can think of situation I was in where I had to work with a co-worker to complete the Automation project, we are asked to identify 10 pain points in day to day server administration tasks and provide automation solutions.
		A: I have come up with a plan to have 2 to 3 internal meetings with the rest of team and brain storm the areas of improvement, some of the things I can remember from that list are file systems cleanup (usage > 90% - mostly log files), performance monitoring alerts (CPU, Memory, IO & Disk Usage), patching 100s of servers (servers are not connected to Internet and requires local repos.), user management (Mostly Production Support team where privileged access is granted to perform Production changes), File transfers (application logs are sent to Business team for analysis), Scanning for vulnerabilities and etc.
		R: We made good progress and divided them in to groups depending on the complexity of the scripts which are going to be needed. Half way in to the project I started to realize my co-worker lack of interest in completing his tasks which later I discovered that his contract (current job) is going to end soon and not going to be renewed. He started attending interviews during the day and slacked off his efforts. I consulted with my manager regarding the current situation and informed him about the danger of not meeting deadlines. I was able to convince my manager in providing extra resource in completing the task and was able to meet our deadlines.

8) Think Big:
	a) Tell me about your proudest professional achievement.
	b) Tell me about a time when you went way beyond the scope of the project and delivered.

9) Bias for Action:
	a) Describe a time when you saw some problem and took the initiative to correct it rather than waiting for someone else to do it.
	b) Tell me about a time when you took a calculated risk.
	c) Tell me about a time you needed to get information from someone who wasn’t very responsive. What did you do?

10) Frugality:
	a) Tell me about a time when you had to work with limited time or resources.
		S & T: I currently support around 30 customer facing applications where in a typical week you will be working on code releases, patching, maintenance and upgrades sometimes with tight time lines.
		T: I prioritize work and here is my method I use effectively: The key metrics that I use are RTO/ RPO [read more about them], Business Continuity and SLAs.
		A: My incoming tickets are sorted into a matrix based on business criticality attributes. My matrix consists of 3 columns, number one the customer/ application type (Gold, Silver & Bronze), number two environment type (Production, Test, etc) and number three work type (outage, build, patching, testing, POC, etc)
		R: By having the matrix and following SLAs, RTO and RPOs I am able to handle the work load in limited time and sometimes with limited resources in the team. Of course this requires coordination from other team members but we have high success rate of achieving monthly operational goals using this technique.

11) Earn Trust:
	a) What would you do if you found out that your closest friend at work was stealing?
	b) Tell me about a time when you had to tell someone a harsh truth.
		S: Talk about how you have to tell your co-worker (As I am the lead) that todays is your last day at work and had to walk him out of the building.

12) Deep Dive:
	a) Give me two examples of when you did more than what was required in any job experience:
		This question can have similar answer like in 8.b.
	b) Tell me about something that you learnt recently in your role.

13) Have Backbone; Disagree & Commit:
	a) Tell me about a time when you did not accept the status quo.
	b) Tell me about an unpopular decision of yours.
	c) Tell me about a time when you had to step up and disagree with a team members approach:
		This question can have similar answer like in 1.a.
	d) If your direct manager was instructing you to do something you disagreed with, how would you handle it?
		This question can have similar answer like in 1.a.

14) Deliver Results:
	a) By providing an example, tell me when you have had to handle a variety of assignments. Describe the results.
	b) What is the most difficult situation you have ever faced in your life? How did you handle it?
		S: Talk about losing parents, the health issues they faced and stress you went through.
	c) Give me an example of a time when you were 75% of the way through a project, and you had to pivot strategy–how were you able to make that into a success story?
